Document AWS Lambda OpenTelemetry support (#5674)
elastic/apm-server: docs/guide/opentelemetry-elastic.asciidoc

To instrument AWS Lambda Java functions, follow the official https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/lambda/lambda-java[AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Lambda Support For Java].

Noteworthy configuration elements:

* AWS Lambda Java functions should extend `com.amazonaws.services.lambda.runtime.RequestHandler`,
+
[source,java]
----
public class ExampleRequestHandler implements RequestHandler<APIGatewayProxyRequestEvent, APIGatewayProxyResponseEvent> {
    public APIGatewayProxyResponseEvent handleRequest(APIGatewayProxyRequestEvent event, Context context) {
        // add your code ...
    }
}
----

* When using SDK-based instrumentation, frameworks you want to gain visibility of should be manually instrumented
** The below example instruments https://square.github.io/okhttp/4.x/okhttp/okhttp3/-ok-http-client/[OkHttpClient] with the OpenTelemetry instrument https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.opentelemetry.instrumentation/opentelemetry-okhttp-3.0/1.3.1-alpha/jar[io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-okhttp-3.0:1.3.1-alpha]

>   +

Reviewer: This might've been my fault. There's a space here that shouldn't be here and it breaks the rendering.

```suggestion
+
```

IMPORTANT: By default, Discover shows data for the last 15 minutes. If you have a time-based index
and no data displays, you might need to increase the time range.

[[open-telemetry-aws-lambda-elastic]]
==== AWS Lambda Support

AWS Lambda functions can be instrumented with OpenTelemetry and monitored with Elastic Observability.

To get started, follow the official AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Lambda https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/lambda[getting started documentation] and configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to output traces and metrics to your Elastic cluster.

[[open-telemetry-aws-lambda-elastic-java]]
==== Instrumenting AWS Lambda Java functions

> Note that for better startup time, it is recommended to use SDK based instrumentation (aka manual instrumentation of the code) rather than auto instrumentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: For a better startup time, we recommend using SDK-based instrumentation, i.e. manual instrumentation of the code, rather than auto instrumentation.
```

To instrument AWS Lambda Java functions, follow the official https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/lambda/lambda-java[AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Lambda Support For Java].

Noteworthy configuration elements:

* AWS Lambda Java functions should extend `com.amazonaws.services.lambda.runtime.RequestHandler`,

> 

Reviewer: By adding a `+` here, we force the code block under the previous bullet.

```suggestion
+
```

[source,java]
----
public class ExampleRequestHandler implements RequestHandler<APIGatewayProxyRequestEvent, APIGatewayProxyResponseEvent> {
    public APIGatewayProxyResponseEvent handleRequest(APIGatewayProxyRequestEvent event, Context context) {
        // add your code ...
    }
}
----

> * When using SDK based instrumentation, frameworks you want to get visibility on should be manually instrumented,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When using SDK-based instrumentation, frameworks you want to gain visibility of should be manually instrumented
```

> ** Example to instrument https://square.github.io/okhttp/4.x/okhttp/okhttp3/-ok-http-client/[OkHttpClient] with the OpenTelemetry instrument https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.opentelemetry.instrumentation/opentelemetry-okhttp-3.0/1.3.1-alpha/jar[io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-okhttp-3.0:1.3.1-alpha]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The below example instruments https://square.github.io/okhttp/4.x/okhttp/okhttp3/-ok-http-client/[OkHttpClient] with the OpenTelemetry instrument https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.opentelemetry.instrumentation/opentelemetry-okhttp-3.0/1.3.1-alpha/jar[io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-okhttp-3.0:1.3.1-alpha]
```

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  +
```

[source,java]
----
import io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.okhttp.v3_0.OkHttpTracing;

OkHttpClient httpClient = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
        .addInterceptor(OkHttpTracing.create(GlobalOpenTelemetry.get()).newInterceptor())
        .build();
----

* The configuration of the OpenTelemetry Collector, with the definition of the Elastic Observability endpoint, can be added to the root directory of the Lambda binaries (e.g. defined in `src/main/resources/opentelemetry-collector.yaml`)

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,yaml]
----
# Copy opentelemetry-collector.yaml in the root directory of the lambda function
# Set an environment variable 'OPENTELEMETRY_COLLECTOR_CONFIG_FILE' to '/var/task/opentelemetry-collector.yaml'
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      http:
      grpc:

exporters:
  logging:
    loglevel: debug
  otlp/elastic:
    # Elastic APM server https endpoint without the "https://" prefix

>     endpoint: "${ELASTIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT}"
>     headers:
>       # Elastic APM Server secret token
>       Authorization: "Bearer ${ELASTIC_OTLP_TOKEN}"
> 
> service:
>   pipelines:
>     traces:
>       receivers: [otlp]
>       exporters: [logging, otlp/elastic]
>     metrics:
>       receivers: [otlp]
>       exporters: [logging, otlp/elastic]
> ----
> 
> * Note that in the `opentelemetry-collector.yaml` example above, the environment specific configuration parameters are conviniently passed  as environment variables: `ELASTIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT` and `ELASTIC_OTLP_TOKEN`.

Reviewer: What about turning this bullet into a code callout?

```suggestion
    endpoint: "${ELASTIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT}" <1>
    headers:
      # Elastic APM Server secret token
      Authorization: "Bearer ${ELASTIC_OTLP_TOKEN}" <1>

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [logging, otlp/elastic]
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [logging, otlp/elastic]
----
<1> Environment-specific configuration parameters can be conveniently passed in as environment variables: `ELASTIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT` and `ELASTIC_OTLP_TOKEN`
```

* Configure the AWS Lambda Java function with:
** https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/API_Layer.html[Function
layer]: The latest https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/lambda/lambda-java[AWS
Lambda layer for OpenTelemetry] (e.g. `arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:901920570463:layer:aws-otel-java-wrapper-ver-1-2-0:1`)
** https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/API_TracingConfig.html[TracingConfig / Mode] set to `PassTrough`
** Export the environment variables:
*** `AWS_LAMBDA_EXEC_WRAPPER="/opt/otel-proxy-handler"` for wrapping handlers proxied through the API Gateway (see https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/lambda/lambda-java#enable-auto-instrumentation-for-your-lambda-function[here])
*** `OTEL_PROPAGATORS="tracecontext, baggage"` to override the default setting that also enables X-Ray headers causing interferences between OpenTelemetry and X-Ray
*** `OPENTELEMETRY_COLLECTOR_CONFIG_FILE="/var/task/opentelemetry-collector.yaml"` to specify the path to your OpenTelemetry Collector configuration

[[open-telemetry-aws-lambda-elastic-java-terraform]]
==== Instrumenting AWS Lambda Java functions with Terraform

> We recommend to use an infrastructure as code solution like Terraform or Ansible to manage the configuration of your AWS Lambda functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using an infrastructure as code solution like Terraform or Ansible to manage the configuration of your AWS Lambda functions.
```
